# Data PPP Reader

<div>

> **Note**
>
> [README](). Call for Paper for [*Trust through
> Transparency*](https://www.dcc.ac.uk/events/idcc24)*: 18th
> International Digital Curation Conference*. [Lightning
> Talk](https://music.dataobservatory.eu/documents/open_music_europe/data-to-policy/Lightning-talk.html)
> proposal for the same conference. [Conference
> paper](https://music.dataobservatory.eu/documents/open_music_europe/data-to-policy/IDCC_CfP.html)
> proposal.

</div>

## Privately-held data

`bib/privatelyhelddata.bib`

*European Statistical System Position paper on access to privately held
data which are of public interest*

> Statistical surveys and administrative registers are and will remain
> important sources for the production of official statistics. However,
> the traditional data gathering methods could be in the future enhanced
> and enriched by big data analytics. To achieve this, it is essential
> that data held by private actors can be used by statistical
> authorities as raw material for innovative value-added services and
> statistical products, which will also boost the economy by creating
> new jobs and encouraging investment in data-driven sectors. Increased
> efficiency and faster delivery by statistical offices of innovative
> digital products and services will be one of the cornerstones for
> evidence-based decisions and contribute to lessening the burden on
> statistical respondents and notably on businesses. Improved access to
> data would enable statistical offices to provide more granular and
> timely statistics that would be more useful to enterprises and the
> citizens alike. It would also mean providing valuable feedback
> information to the data holders or delivering more tailored
> statistical services to companies, which might help them in return to
> better develop their business model. (ESS 2017, 3–4)

> Finally, concerning the practical modalities to access the data, our
> experience shows that such access can take a large variety of forms,
> ranging from access to raw data as collected by the data holder to
> access to data processed on the basis of algorithms specially designed
> and provided by statistical experts. Using algorithms provided by the
> statistical offices could not only reduce the cost of making data
> available but also represent an additional safeguard with regard to
> privacy. In general, data holders should be entitled to give access to
> their data as they are and should not be required to provide them in
> any specific format. It is indeed generally agreed that the burden on
> data providers needs to be minimised and data shall be used in their
> original format. The same approach applies regarding the metadata;
> without the relevant metadata, data will be of limited use for
> statistical purposes. It is therefore essential for statistical
> offices to access these metadata in order to be able to ascertain
> contents, quality and usability of the data while avoiding any extra
> burden on data holders and eventually leaving the details open for
> bilateral discussion depending on the data concerned. More generally,
> statistical offices are committed to transparency in the methods,
> algorithms, techniques, tools, etc. they use and this overall
> commitment should represent an additional incentive for data holders
> to share their data. (ESS 2017, 6–7.)

*High-Level Expert Group on Business-to-Government Data Sharing: Towards
a European strategy on business-to-government data sharing for the
public interest. Final report*

> B2G data-sharing collaborations should be organised: – in testing
> environments (‘sandboxes’) for pilot testing (‘pilots’) to help assess
> the potential value of data for new situations in which a product or
> service could potentially be used (‘use cases’), – via public-private
> partnerships. (HLEG 2020, 8.)

> Data taxonomy In this report, the term ‘data’ refers to data at all
> levels of abstraction, from raw data to pre-processed, processed data
> and insights derived from the data, depending on the use case, the
> type of data, etc. (for further details, see Annex I: Data taxonomy).
> Raw data: data collected from a source (e.g. numbers, instrument
> readings, images, text, videos, sensor data).
>
> Pre-processed data: pre-processing includes, for example, cleaning,
> instance selection, re-sampling, normalisation, transformation,
> feature extraction and selection.
>
> Processed data: data processing can be described as the manipulation
> of data in order to produce meaningful information.
>
> Data-driven insights: are generated by drawing conclusions from
> processed, analysed data.
>
> All levels of abstraction need to be handled in full compliance with
> privacy legislation.
>
> (HLEG 2020, p 23)

> The focus of B2G data sharing is on datasets that the public sector
> either does not have \> access to or has no way to collect, in
> addition to situations where the sharing of such data would prevent
> the duplication of effort and investment in data collection and
> storage. (HLEG 2020, p23)

> Member States should have in place structures to support B2G data
> sharing. These structures could be a body (or bodies) tasked with
> assisting public-sector organisations and private companies or
> civil-society organisations in entering into new data-sharing
> partnerships and facilitating the sharing of good practice. Over time,
> such structures could become trusted third parties between the public
> and private sectors, by bringing the relevant players together. (HLEG
> 2020, 37)

> All B2G data sharing can ultimately be understood as a form of
> public-private partnership (PPP). However, from a practical point of
> view, sandboxes and specific PPPs can be put in place for specific
> public-interest purposes or to target specific challenges related to
> B2G data sharing. (HLEG 2020, p 41)

p43 chart

## Administrative Data & Statistical registers

`bib/administrativedata.bib`

“A register aims to be a complete list of the objects in a specific
group of objects or population.” (Anders and Britt 2007) We are planning
music industry registers where the objects are *music works* and *sound
recordings* (in statistical terms, music products), and the populations
are *music authors*, *music performers*, *groupings of performers* (as
the majority of the musicians perform, record, release in groups,
ensembles, orchestras), *record labels* (which may be formal and
informal businesses) and *music publishers* (enterprises.) From a
statistical point of view, our planned music industry registers can be
seen as “administrative registers” because they were not initially
created for a statistical purpose by a statistical authority.

The authoritative source on statistical business registers is the
*United Nations Guidelines on Statistical Business Registers. Final
draft prior to official editing* (“United Nations Guidelines on
Statistical Business Registers. Final Draft Prior to Official Editing”
2020) which is heavily based on the former UNECE *Guidelines on
statistical business registers* (UNECE 2015). The European guideline is
the *European business statistics methodological manual for statistical
business registers. 2021 edition* (Eurostat 2021).

## Open Music Europe cross-referencing

`bib/OpenMusE.bib`

- {Open Music Europe (OpenMusE) – An Open, Scalable, Data-to-Policy
  Pipeline for European Music Ecosystems (Open Music Europe 2023a)
- Memorandum of Understanding on utilizing the Open Policy Analysis
  results of the OpenMuse Research and Innovation Consortium in the
  context of Slovak cultural and creative industries and sectors’ public
  policies (Open Music Europe 2023d)

`bib/openmusicrepositories.bib`

- WP1 Repository: Report on the European Music Economy (Open Music
  Europe 2023c)

- WP2 Repository: Report on Music Diversity and Circulation in Europe
  (Open Music Europe 2023b)

<div id="refs" class="references csl-bib-body hanging-indent">

<div id="ref-anders_register-based_2007" class="csl-entry">

Anders, Wallgren, and Wallgren Britt. 2007. *Register-Based Statistics.
Administrative Data for Statistical Purposes*. 1st ed. Chichester:United
Kingdom: John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

</div>

<div id="ref-ess_position_privately_held_2017" class="csl-entry">

ESS. 2017. “Position Paper on Access to Privately Held Data Which Are of
Public Interest.” European Statistical System.
<https://ec.europa.eu/eurostat/documents/13019146/13346094/ESS+Position+Paper+on+Access+to+privately+held+data+final+-+Nov+2017.pdf/6ef6398f-6580-4731-86ab-9d9d015d15ae?t=1511447619000>.

</div>

<div id="ref-eurostat_sbr_manual_2021" class="csl-entry">

Eurostat. 2021. *European Business Statistics Methodological Manual for
Statistical Business Registers. 2021 Edition*. Manuals and Guidelines.
Luxembourg: Publications Office of the European Union.
<https://doi.org/10.2785/093371>.

</div>

<div id="ref-hleg_towards_b2g_data_2020" class="csl-entry">

HLEG. 2020. *Towards a European Strategy on Business-to-Government Data
Sharing for the Public Interest. Final Report Prepared by the High-Level
Expert Group on Business-to-Government Data Sharing*. Luxembourg:
Publications Office of the European Union.
<https://ec.europa.eu/newsroom/dae/document.cfm?doc_id=64954>.

</div>

<div id="ref-openmuse_2023" class="csl-entry">

Open Music Europe. 2023a. “<span class="nocase">Open Music Europe
(OpenMusE) – An Open, Scalable, Data-to-Policy Pipeline for European
Music Ecosystems</span>.” <https://doi.org/10.3030/101095295>.

</div>

<div id="ref-open_music_europe_diversity_repository" class="csl-entry">

———. 2023b. “Repository: Report on Music Diversity and Circulation in
Europe. GitHub.” Open Policy Analysis Repository with Standardized File
Structure. 2023.
<https://github.com/dataobservatory-eu/report-music-diversity-circulation-europe/>.

</div>

<div id="ref-open_music_europe_economy_repository" class="csl-entry">

———. 2023c. “Repository: Report on the European Music Economy. GitHub.”
Open Policy Analysis Repository with Standardized File Structure. March
26, 2023.
<https://github.com/dataobservatory-eu/report-european-music-economy>.

</div>

<div id="ref-open_music_europe_sk_mou_2023" class="csl-entry">

Open Music Europe, Ministerstvo kultúry SR AND. 2023d. “Memorandum o
porozumení o využití výsledkov analýz otvorených politík v kontexte
slovenského kultúrneho a kreatívneho priemyslu a sektorových verejných
politík v spolupráci s konzorciom pre výskum a inovácie s názvom
OpenMuse. \[Memorandum of Understanding on utilizing the Open Policy
Analysis results of the OpenMuse Research and Innovation Consortium in
the context of Slovak cultural and creative industries and sectors’
public policies\].” <https://www.crz.gov.sk/zmluva/7645338/>.

</div>

<div id="ref-unece_sbr_guidelines_2015" class="csl-entry">

UNECE. 2015. “Guidelines on Statistical Business Registers.” United
Nations Economic Commission for Europe.
<http://www.unece.org:8080/fileadmin/DAM/stats/publications/2015/ECE_CES_39_WEB.pdf>.

</div>

<div id="ref-un_sbr_guidelines_2020" class="csl-entry">

“United Nations Guidelines on Statistical Business Registers. Final
Draft Prior to Official Editing.” 2020. United Nations.
<https://unstats.un.org/unsd/business-stat/SBR/Documents/UN_Guidelines_on_SBR.pdf>.

</div>

</div>
